Fine Grained Segmentation of OD and OC (along with patch dataset for segmentation) Introduction: We propose to address the ambiguities in segmentation of the OD and OC with a learner and reviser CNN (with patch-level fine-grained revision). In the learner module, the OD and OC are segmented by two state-of-the-art CNNs (a deep encoder-decoder CNN and U- Net) independently. The ambiguous pixels (predicted differently by the learner CNNs) are tested in the reviser CNN.

We have included (i) The patch dataset and (ii) the complete code for (a)patch dataset generation , (b) fine grained segmentation through a learner reviser CNN. Read the "Code-details" in the attachments for the details of the codes.

Patch dataset: (patches_60k_1.zip consists of patches generated from fundus images around the borders; ODPatches60K.zip consists of patches generated from OD Labels around the borders) The Patch dataset is created cropping patches of size 25 Χ 25 from the Fundus Images in DRISHTI- GS dataset. The patches are created around the borders of the Optical Disc (OD) and Optical Cup (OC) where there "expected ambiguity" is maximum. The ambiguous points (in class belongingness as OD or OC) are extracted by EX-OR ing OD and OC labels. The folder named "Expected ambiguities" shows the images with the ambiguous pixels in white. In the Excel file called "Expected ambiguities" we have taken 50,000 ambiguous points (pixels) randomly from all images. The patches of size 25 × 25 is extracted from the original image and OD ground truth for fine grained learning.
